How to finally nail your YouTube
strategy as a B2B or SAS company. I'm
sitting down with Samu who runs one of
the fastest growth YouTube agencies
right now. He's working with the likes
of RB2B and some huge SAS companies.
We're going to talk about exactly where
many companies go wrong with their
YouTube strategy, why you need it in
2026 and beyond, and how it can fuel the
rest of your B2B marketing ecosystem
[music] so you can start nailing long
form videos to drive mind share pipeline
and revenue. Let's dive in.
Sammy, welcome. Thank you for having me,
mate. Give us a quick intro for anyone
that doesn't know about yourself and
agency. So, we are a YouTube agency. We
do organic YouTube videos fully done for
you. So we handle everything apart from
the recording and our clients are mainly
B2B SAS companies and service companies.
So like agencies that's kind of what we
focus and what we've gotten really good
at over the last couple of years. Thank
you sir. So I love to start most
interviews especially face to face with
just big mistakes like what are some of
the biggest frustrations issues painful
mistakes that you see B2B tech service
SAS companies making when it comes to
YouTube time and again ultimate red
flags they need to stop from today?
Yeah, the biggest one is probably not
focusing on it cuz like most SAS
companies use YouTube as like a video
storage platform. Like they have ads,
demo videos, and they just like dump it
out there like without any real
strategy, without any thoughts behind
them. And that's like a big mistake. The
thing with YouTube is that you need to
treat it as an actual sales channel if
you want to get results from it. Sure,
you can use it as a video storage
platform, but then you won't see like
any real results from it and there's no
point in doing it. But if you can
actually focus on it and handle all the
components of it, which we'll be getting
into later, if you can handle all of the
parts of it, like it's one of the most
powerful channels right now, but you
definitely need to have like a specific
strategy for it and not just like
reupload the ads you do or reupload the
demo videos you do because that won't
work and won't get you any results. What
do you feel is the real benefit from a
YouTube strategy? Cuz I think like I
deal with I run SEO for a bunch of SAS
and tech companies. I think there's a
lot of misconceptions with the um
YouTube a bit like LinkedIn like many
people say LinkedIn ads are expensive
many people say like YouTube doesn't
work for me a bit like they say SEO
doesn't work for me. So basically what
they mean I've tried one tactic once and
it didn't work. I guess what I'm trying
to ask is what should be their mindset
before they jump into kind of building
out a strategy and a tactic or what
should be initial mindset that they have
in mind? Yeah, definitely a good
question. And yeah, what I've seen is
like many companies just hire a random
video editor and call it a day with
YouTube and then they try it for a
couple of years and they see no results
of course cuz they just hired a random
freelancer and and they say that okay,
YouTube doesn't work. I look at it in a
way where there's like two main benefits
of YouTube that I see with most of our
clients. One of them is just having in
mind that like YouTube is the second
largest search engine after Google.
Everyone is on YouTube. No matter if you
think you know you're special and you
have like a very specific audience like
they are on YouTube like trust me if
they exist they are on YouTube. So
because of that there's a consistent
demand from your ICP. Chances are that
your ICP actively searches for certain
topics, actively watches YouTube and
certain topics. So we really need to
make sure that we are with the YouTube
videos we are creating we are getting in
front of those types of people. Now it
varies niche by niche how much demand
there is you know in that there are
certain niches where there are just so
much demand and you can get like tens of
thousands even hundreds of thousands of
views per video. But there are certain
topics there are certain niches where
it's a lot slower and you have to be
mindful of that. Obviously, you don't
want to have any unrealistic
expectations, but you just know that
your ideal clients are on YouTube, so
it's definitely worth trying to get in
front of them. The other part where I
see YouTube is helping overall is just
the entire content and B2B marketing
ecosystem that you have, most companies
will run ads, most companies will do
outbound, they will do like lending
content, they will SEO as well. And
YouTube fits very well into this entire
ecosystem. One thing that YouTube has
that other channels don't really have is
the aspect that it's long form, it's
face to face cuz it's video, it has
sound as well. So it has like all the
components to build trust. Whereas with
like a written post can only go so far.
With also a short form post it can only
go so far. With YouTube it's kind of all
out. So you you can make it as long as
you want. You can make it as valuable as
you want. You can just build the most
trust with it. So because of that when
you like place it into your already
existing marketing ecosystem whether
it's ads whether it's LinkedIn content
whether it's anything else it
complements them very very well because
people might find you on cold email they
might find you on LinkedIn but when they
see your YouTube channel they will see
like okay you have like dozens of videos
going super deep into the topic you're
sharing your expertise you're actual
like a human being you have a face you
have a voice all of that you have a
personality it just gives that entire
package that makes it much more likely
for them to open a call to buy from you
so those are the two kind of benefits I
see with
Real quick, if you want to start fueling
your sales team with a steady stream of
leads, demos, or booked calls from SEO
and organic search across AI and Google,
why not grab a call with myself over at
breakingb.com.
We can chat through exactly how SEO
could potentially help your business
drive a steady stream of inbound through
organic search. Head over to
breaking.com or hit the link in
description below. Right, back to the
video. You mentioned something
interesting as well about niches. Like
when I'm talking about SEO and AEO, I
often talk about SAS companies, B2B
companies falling into the traffic trap.
Do you think that's similar at YouTube,
but views opposed to visitors to your
website? Or do you think sometimes folks
get too focused on views or costs
opposed to going for like the right type
of prospects actually looking at your
video content?
>> Most definitely. Most definitely. I I I
see this a lot in our agency. The main
thing we optimize for is leads because
we work with businesses. Our business
goal is to like make more money. So the
service that we do for them is to add
them make more money, generate modes
etc. And many companies as you said like
make the mistake of focusing on views,
focusing on other vanity metrics like
subscribers. And how we look at like
views and all of that is just as another
data point but not the final metric that
we optimize for. The final metric will
always be lead amount and lead quality.
So like how we can best types of leads
and the most amount of them. And that's
very important because getting the most
amount of views and getting the most
amount of leads are like require two
different strategies. So, you shouldn't
fall into the trap of like just focusing
on views because what that will make you
do is creating videos that are too
broad, creating videos that are for not
exactly your ICP, that might attract the
wrong type of audience. And sure, it
might feel good that you have like tens
of thousands of views, but like you
won't make money from it. So, it's it it
doesn't really matter at the end of the
day. So, it's a lot better to like
really focus on your ICP. we with with
all of our clients, we just hone in on
focusing on, okay, who they're actually
targeting and just really focusing on
that those types of people's problems,
pain points, desires even, and then
creating videos that are around those.
And that's what we see just generates
the best results on YouTube. So that is
super important to really know like
you're not in it with the goal as like
for example with Mr. Beast, like you're
not trying to be the next Mr. Beast.
You're not trying to go viral. You're
trying to really just like find your
ideal customers, make them trust you,
and then make them book a call with you
or sign up for your software, whatever.
as that's really how we think about it.
>> Makes sense. I suppose if if a company's
tuning in so far and they're thinking
like this all resonates, makes sense. I
want to start driving kind of qualified
meetings, calls, signups, or get stuck
into a YouTube strategy. What are the
first things that they should consider
when they're kind of building out a bit
of a playbook before they get stuck in?
Yeah, great question. So, what we start
out with always is the strategy side of
things. The step zero here is just
really focusing on their ICP and the
customer research. So, from our clients,
whenever we start working with them, we
get all of that information. So who they
are targeting, their pain points, their
desires, what type of companies they
are, if they are B2B, really just
getting all of that information because
that will be crucial and that will
determine everything else we do. And
after that, we just really focus on
outlining a strategy where we have the
exact ideas and know what type of videos
we have to create if you want to get in
front of these people and we want to
actually reach them and then uh nurture
them and convert them. So what we do
here is a couple of things on YouTube,
but it's very important is competitor
research. So competitor research is
something we always do with our clients.
For some niches, there are a lot of
competitors and you will find a lot of
competitors, a lot of data around like,
okay, what's already working in your
niche, what type of hooks, what type of
packagings, what type of titles,
thumbnails, all of that stuff. And you
can get a lot of inspiration from that.
See what's already working. And this is
usually makes scaling just 10 times
faster rather than just trying to
reinvent the wheel. It's really sort of
a cheat code. Other than that, we also
do keyword research. It's not like with
Google. With Google, there are like
certain tools that tell you exactly what
are the the different like keyword,
search volume, and demands. With
YouTube, it's a little bit trickier. You
have to try different keywords to look
at okay what are the videos that come up
their views are there outliers on the
specific channels or not but we do that
kind of process as well to like just go
gauge the intent and like see what's the
the intent and also what's the the
volume of of search and the demand for
each of the topics that we would go for
and using all of that that's how we
really like create a step-by-step plan
of like okay what are the first videos
that we have to create what are the
videos for the second month and we
create like a game plan that is like
tailored to how we can find the right
type of people and then how we can uh
convert them as well. Nice. Love to hear
it when customer research is the
backbone of a strategy. I talk about
this a lot, but I think a lot of B2B
marketing just completely skips it and
then kind of wonders why it falls flat.
Does that make sense? So then when it
comes to I guess actually you've kind of
built this framework, you've built a bit
of a road map when you're actually
getting stuck in and you or your team or
if you're a solo founder, you're kind of
doing the talking head videos, like what
are the things that you should consider
and actually kind of shooting and
getting the footage together?
>> Yeah, for sure. So to be very honest
with you, as as you know as well, like
YouTube is not an easy platform. It's
not like you just write a couple
LinkedIn post and you post it. Like
YouTube is a platform where first of all
you have the strategy that I've
explained. Then you have to take care of
the scripting of like how you will
structure the video, what you will say
etc. Then you have to think about how
you will record it. Then you have to
think about all the post-production. So
like the editing, the thumbnail, all
that stuff. So that's why many B2B
companies have problem with YouTube
problems with YouTube and and it's hard
for them to like get started. But that's
also why it's a huge opportunity because
there's a lot you know smaller
competition. So to action steps of like
how to actually handle all of these
steps, it's very hard to do it inhouse
unless you have like a like a specific
content team that has like at least a
strategist, the thumbnail designer, and
an editor, but preferably like a couple
more people in terms of like scripting
and and all that other stuff. So if you
have that, that's great, but most
companies don't have that. So the
options there really are first one is
hiring a couple of freelancers. That's
kind of the cheaper option, which can
work in some cases, but it's very hard
to first of all find these right type of
freelancers. you have to go through a
lot of people. There are a lot of
mediocre editors, uh, thumbnail
designers, and many times they don't
really understand a B2B landscape
because there's it's a lot different
than like B2C or other other spaces. And
but that's like the one one way to go
about it is try to find those
freelancers. The other challenge here is
that it's hard to then manage them. So
you have to like quality check all of
their work. You have to talk with them,
communicate them all of that stuff. So
that's one option for for companies that
are maybe on the budget with this.
Another option is, you know, I'm biased
here, but it's like hiring a YouTube
agency. So that's another option. I'll
talk about it just just generally. But
how YouTube agencies work is they
basically handle all of that. So you
just have to like record the footage,
send it over and they handle like all
the planning and scripting beforehand
and then all the post-production, the
distribution after. That's a good option
because it's still is more cost
effective than hiring your own internal
team in most cases in terms of like
resources, but it's fully handled. So
you don't have to quality check. You
don't have to worry about anything else
other than just obviously paying the
agency. So those are the main ways we
see that B2B companies are are making
YouTube work. I'd like to know is there
a bit of a recipe? So when it comes to
you mentioned earlier kind of we talked
about the research we talked about
reveing competitors we talked a bit
about strategy you mentioned kind of
many companies fall flat when it comes
to actually the format of the video
itself and like hiring editors or trying
to do in house or messing around just
not hitting the mark. Is there a recipe
for a perfect YouTube video when it
comes to like hook body content steps
CTA closing ending? Yeah for sure. So
I'll give away the souls here. How we do
that? Like the first step is just coming
up with the ideas. With ideas is very
niche specific or like what works. But
generally you want to structure the
video ideas in a way where you focus on
first of all like more top of funnel
content. Not top of funnel in a way
where it's like irrelevant to your ICP
but in top of funnel in a way where
you're attracting a lot of your ICP and
a lot of those people and you make it
like quite relevant for all those
people. Uh these can be like how-to
videos really like educational videos
that are like easy to consume, not super
super long. So like 8 to 15 minutes and
that's really like the top of funnel.
Then you do middle of funnel videos
which are like harder to consume videos,
a little bit longer but you provide a
lot more value and you a lot more
in-depth. This will be for people that
are a lot more interested further down
the funnel. And then the last one is
bottom of funnel where it's either case
study overviews, customer interview or
client interviews and and those can work
very well to just like make that last
push and push the customer over or push
the lead over to actually go ahead take
the next step book a call sign up etc.
And that's how we like to structure the
strategy side of things. Once you have
the strategy in terms of scripting,
what's very important on in structuring
the video is to make sure that the hook
is not too too long. Like you just want
to in the hook is social proof. So
you're like actually a trusted
individual about a certain topic and
explain what the video will be about. So
you make them interesting interested in
like hearing more and just really
learning and getting that value
delivered to them in that video so they
actually keep watching. And once you
have that like you just want to get into
the value especially in B2B like you
don't want to sit there for like minutes
just talking about oh in this video I
will do this and this and just talking
about random stuff. like you want to get
into the value in terms of call action
that's a very important part because
call actions will drive the leads that
you have from YouTube so you definitely
want to nail this the best way we found
call actions to work and the highest
converting version or uh way to do call
actions is to do two call actions in
each video one at around the 33% mark so
like the first sort of third of the
video and this will be really like a
softer shorter call to action really
just for people that are like already
trust you they are ready to take the
next steps you just want to like scoop
them up and just like you know get them
to take that next step but then you I
have another call to action at the very
end of the video which will be a more
direct more a little bit longer call to
action and those will be really for like
when you've successfully delivered value
in the video you nurtured them you made
sure that they see you as an expert then
you can make that more aggressive call
to action about your offer and with this
two call to action is it's working
perfectly to create videos that are like
actual sales assets and that can really
work on on generating leads and then
there will be other stuff like the video
editing the thumbnails and all that I I
could talk about those for ages a couple
of main things with thumbnails cuz
thumbnails are very important like The
packaging of the video is around like 60
70% of the performance right now on
YouTube or like you know it really
determines everything. What's really
important with thumbnails is to make
sure that they are very easy to be
understood. So like it's it's very easy
to understand them. You don't want to
overclutter them. Not too many words
like four words at maximum. The rule of
thumb is just maximum four words if
you're the better. Couple of main
colors, contrasting colors really make
it pop big face on you, preferably your
face who's actually in the video. Like
that's that's the the best way. And
we're just making it very eye-catching
but very simple. You don't want to make
it overwhelming. we want to make it like
just they they glance at it and they
understand what the video is about and
they just get interested from that. So
that's the main things that we focus on
when creating a YouTube video sort of
like the the main rules that we go about
when when creating YouTube videos that
actually sell. Love it. And let's wrap
up with you talked about B2B marketing
ecosystem earlier like how can this for
folks that are thinking okay so I'm I'm
interested I I understand like I get I
get the strategy how can this feed into
everything else I'm doing whether I'm
running SEO or whether I'm running ads
or I'm doing LinkedIn or I'm doing
founder brand like how can this kind of
help and fuel and reinforce the other
marketing work that I'm doing. Yeah,
that's a very very important part. And
what we focus on here really is like
whenever you do YouTube videos, you want
to push it out to as many of your other
channels as possible because your
YouTube videos will be your most
powerful sales assets. Like that's just
how it is. Like those long form videos
will be more powerful than any LinkedIn
post you can make, any newsletters you
can write. Like really that's the
highest converting sort of content that
you can have. So you want as many
eyeballs from your other channels as
possible. What we do here and what we
like to do is just pushing it out first
of all on LinkedIn for B2B brands. It's
like super relevant. Most of most of the
B2B founders or B2B companies actually
have a have a good LinkedIn presence. So
what we found works best is creating
posts that promote these YouTube videos.
So like we write a LinkedIn post and
then at the end we link it. So this way
we get people curious to like watch the
video and then at the end they click on
the links to to actually like get the
value and watch the video. And this way
we can like drive those people you have
on LinkedIn, get them to YouTube, get
them more nurtured and hopefully they
take the next step to book a call or
sign up. And that's one way to do it.
The other way we like to do it as well
is just promoting it on your newsletter
or for your email list. So whenever you
have like an email list newsletter, you
can create certain whenever you write an
email, you can put like a plug at the
end of like by the way I just made a
YouTube video about XYZ click it click
here to watch and that's like a great
way to like funnel those people to a
YouTube video and then obviously as I
said like convert them h those are a
couple of ways but another really cool
way which I use personally you I know
use as well is just before sales calls
sending a couple of specific YouTube
videos to people you can have it as like
an automated flow you can do it manually
whatever but those work very well to
like warm people up for sales calls or
demo calls because you can send like
case study videos, you can send client
interviews, you can send process
breakdowns and really when they like
watch it before the sales call like it's
a day and night of a difference in terms
of how much they trust you, how much
they know about you, um how educated
they are. So these are there there's a
there are a lot of ways to like really
just use it across your marketing uh
ecosystem, but these are a couple of my
favorites. Yeah, I can completely agree
with most of the things you've said,
especially the last part. Like if you've
got a prospect that's kind of
semi-bought in and you said look maybe
you send your proposal and you've got a
sales call maybe a couple hours prior to
or a couple hours after rather sending
that email and you say look watch this
walk through that's 20 minutes and then
we can go go through in a sec. If
they've consumed that the layer of trust
that they're going to build with you
over maybe two or three other agencies
that are evaluating that haven't kind of
taken that effort to record that
particular content is almost unrivaled.
So I think that's a big play. Not only
that but it also feeds into kind of your
SEO strategy and kind of gives you a
boost elsewhere. So appreciate the
breakdown. Sammy, thanks very much for
coming on this cold winter's podcast
session. Enjoying the views and do tell
everyone for anyone that's kind of ready
to have a chat with you, what's the best
way to get in touch? Yeah, thanks for
having me and yeah, the best way is to
just through my LinkedIn. So I have my
LinkedIn profile, we can link it in the
description. So that's the best way. I
also have a website, so we can link that
as well. And yeah, whoever is
interested, I'm I'm always free to like
hop on a call, chat more about like how
we usually work, etc. But yeah, thanks
for having me, mate.
Cheers, man. Cheers.